# React Interview Questions & Answers

## 🚀Introduction

### What is React? What is the Role of React in software development?

React is an open-source JavaScript library for building user interfaces based on UI components. It is created and maintained by Facebook and was released in 2013.

- A ReactJS application is made with multiple components, each component responsible for outputting a small, reusable piece of HTML code. So components are the heart of all React applications.
- React is also famous for building single-page applications and mobile apps.

### What are the key Features of React?

There are several features available on React because it is widely popular.

- **JSX:** JSX is a JavaScript syntax extension. It is faster than normal JavaScript as it performs optimizations while translating to regular JavaScript. By using that, we can write HTML structures in the same file that contains JavaScript code.
- **Virtual DOM:** Virtual DOM is nothing, but a lightweight copy of the Real DOM. Manipulating Real DOM is much slower compared to Virtual DOM, so it's used to improve the performance, update the real DOM, reducing the amount of direct manipulation.
- **Unidirectional Data Flow (One-way Data Binding):** ReactJS follows a unidirectional data flow, also known as one-way data binding. The data is transferred from top to bottom i.e. from parent components to child components. This helps in maintaining a clear and predictable flow of data.
- **Component Based Architecture:** A Component is one of the core building blocks of React. React follows a component-based architecture, where the UI is broken down into reusable and modular components. Each component depends on its own logic, state, and view that making it easier to manage and maintain the code.
- **Performance:** ReactJS is a high-performance library for creating user interfaces. This feature makes it much better than other frameworks. The reason behind, it manages a virtual DOM & use JSX which is faster compared to normal JavaScript and HTML.
- **Simplicity:** ReactJS uses JSX file which makes the application simple and to code as well as understand. We know that ReactJS is a component-based approach which makes the code reusable as your need.
- **Debugging:** React applications are straightforward and easy to test. Even Facebook provides a small browser extension that makes React debugging easier and faster.

### What are the Advantage of React or why we use React?

There are various reasons why you should choose ReactJS as a primary tool for building application.

- Simple to build Single Page Application
- React is cross platform (web & mobile) and open source (free to use)
- Light weight and very fast
- Easy to Learn and Use
- Creating Dynamic web applications becomes easier
- Reusable Components
- Making scalable apps where you may need to frequently add new features
- Better code stability
- Strong community support

### What are the Disadvantage of React?

There are some disadvantage of react like:

- React is not good choice for very small application
- Poor documention is big problem for new developers
- Its just a library for building UI components so complete the react application we need addition tools or libraries like routing, state management so on.
- React support single page application so its face challenges for **SEO** friendly application.

### What is DOM? What is difference between HTML and DOM?

DOM stands for Document Object Model. DOM is the actual tree-like structure of a web page, which is is dynamically generated by the browser when a web page is loaded.

- DOM allows JavaScript to interact and manipulate with the content, structure, and style of a document.
- HTML is a markup language used for creating the static structure of web pages.

### What is Virtual DOM?

Virtual DOM is nothing, but a lightweight copy of the Real DOM. Manipulating Real DOM is much slower compared to Virtual DOM, so it's used to improve the performance, update the real DOM, reducing the amount of direct manipulation.

### Difference between Virtual DOM and Real DOM?

Virtual DOM is nothing, but a lightweight copy of the Real DOM. Manipulating Real DOM is much slower compared to Virtual DOM, so it's used to improve the performance, update the real DOM, reducing the amount of direct manipulation.

Real DOM is the actual tree-like structure of a web page, which can be manipulated directly to change the layout or content of the page.

### How does Virtual DOM work?

When a component's state or props change, React will create a new virtual DOM tree, compare it to the previous tree, and then apply only the minimal set of changes necessary to the actual DOM. This improves the performance of the application and reduces the number of unnecessary re-renders.

### What is the difference between Shadow DOM and Virtual DOM?

The **Shadow DOM** is a browser technology designed to encapsulate the implementation of a component and keep it separate from the rest of the document.

The **Virtual DOM** is a concept used by libraries like React to optimize the process of updating the actual DOM for performance gains.

### What is Single Page Application (SPA)?

A Single Page Application (SPA) is a web application that have only one single page.

Whenever user do some action on the website, then in response content is dynamically updated without refreshing or loading a new page.

### What is the difference between Declarative & Imperative syntax?

- Declarative syntax focuses on **describing the desired result** without specifying the **step-by-step process** while imperative syntax involves step by step process to achive a paticular goal.

- **JSX** in React is used to write declarative syntax while **JavaScript** has an imperative syntax.

```javascript
// Declarative component in React
function Greeting() {
  return <h1>Hello Dev!</h1>;
}

// Imperative component in React
function Greeting() {
  const element = document.createElement("h1");
  element.textContext = "Hello Dev!";
  document.body.appendChild(element);
}
```

### What are the Main Files in a React project?

React has some files that are typically the foundation of a React application like:

- **index.html:** This is main HTML file of our app. It include the root **<div>** element where your React components will be rendered.
- **index.js:** Its JavaScript entry point of your React application, which renders the root React component(App) into the DOM.
- **App.js:** This is usually the main React component of your application. It contains the structure and logic of your app, including the rendering of other components.
- **index.css:** The main CSS file for styling your React components.
- **package.json:** This file contains metadata about the project, including dependencies, scripts, and other configurations. It's used by npm to manage project dependencies and scripts.
- **node_modules:** The folder where all the project dependencies are stored. This folder is generated and managed by npm or yarn.

### How React App Load and Display the components in browser?

When a React application is loaded and rendered in the browser, the following sequence of events typically occurs:

- **Initial Rendering:** The browser loads the HTML file containing the root div element.
- **ReactDOM.render():** The entry point of the React application (usually index.js) calls
  `ReactDOM.render()` method, passing the root component (e.g., <App />) and the target DOM element (the root div element).
- **Component Tree Construction:** React starts constructing the component tree by creating an instance of the root component (<App />).
- **Render Phase:** Once the component tree is constructed, React enters the render phase. The `render()` method or the functional component **returns** a React element describing what should be rendered on the screen.
- **Reconciliation:** After the render phase, React performs reconciliation, which is the process of comparing the newly rendered React elements with the previously rendered elements.
- **Commit Phase:** React applies the calculated changes to the DOM, making the necessary updates to the browser's rendered output.
- **Browser Painting:** After React updates the DOM, the browser repaints the updated portions of the UI on the screen.

### What are the difference between React and Angular?

React and Angular both are used to create single page UI application using components.

- React is a JavaScript library while Angular is a complete framework.
- React uses a virtual DOM which makes it faster while Angular uses a real DOM.
- React is smaller in size and lightweight so its faster sometime while Angular is bigger because it is a complete framework.
- React depends on external libraries for many complex features, so developer has to write many lines of code for complex functionalities while Angular is a complete framework, therefore it provide build-in-support for features like routing, forms, validation and HTTP requests.
- React is simple to learn and more popular than Angular while Angular is slightly difficult to learn as it has Typescript, OOPS concept and many more thing.

### Why use React instead of other frameworks, like Angular?

React and Angular are both popular JavaScript frameworks for building web applications, but they have different approaches and philosophies. There are some reasons why you might choose React over Angular:

- **Component-Based Architecture:** React is known for its component-based architecture. This approach promotes reusability, modularity and making it easier to maintain large scale applications.
- **Virtual DOM:** Instead of directly manipulating the actual DOM, React compares the Virtual DOM with the real DOM and only applies the necessary changes. This leads to better performance and a smoother user experience, especially in complex applications.
- **Flexibility and Lightweight:** React is more lightweight and flexible compared to Angular. It allowing developers to choose their preferred tools and libraries for state management, routing, and other functionalities. This flexibility can be advantageous for projects with specific requirements.
- **JSX Syntax:** React uses JSX (JavaScript XML) syntax, which allows developers to write HTML-like code directly within JavaScript. This makes the code more readable and intuitive, especially for developers familiar with HTML.
- **Community and Ecosystem:** React has a large and active community, with extensive documentation, tutorials, and third-party libraries available.
- **Performance Optimization:** ReactJS is a high-performance library for creating user interfaces. This feature makes it much better than other frameworks. The reason behind, it manages a virtual DOM & use JSX which is faster compared to normal JavaScript and HTML.

### What are other 5 JS Frameworks other than React?

Apart from React, there are several other popular JavaScript frameworks and libraries that are widely used in web development.

- Angular
- Vue.js
- Svelte
- Ember.js
- Backbone.js

### Whether React is a Framework or a Library? What is the difference?

React is commonly referred to as a JavaScript library, not a framework.

- **Library:** Developers import the libraries at the top and then used its function in components.
- **Framework:** Developers need to follow a specific structure or pattern defined by the framework.

### What is the difference between library and framework?

A library is a collection of reusable code modules or functions that provide specific functionality. It is designed to be used as-needed in various parts of an application.

A framework is a comprehensive set of pre-built tools, libraries, and conventions that provide a structured approach to building applications. It typically imposes a particular architecture or design pattern on the application.

### How React provides Reusability and Composition?

React provides reusability and composition through its component-based architecture.

- **Reusability:** Once you create a component, you can re-use it in different parts of your application or even in different applications.
- **Composition:** Composition is creating new and big components by combining existing small components. This allows developers to create complex UIs by combining simpler, reusable components.

## 📁Files & Folders

### What is NPM? What is the role of node_module folder?

NPM(Node Package Manager) is a powerful package manager for Node.js that used to manage the dependencies for your React application, including the React library itself.

The **node_modules** folder contains all the dependencies of the project, including the React libraries. Its plays a crucial role in organizing and managing project dependencies.

### What is the difference between NPM & NPX?

NPM (Node Package Manager) and NPX (Node Package Runner) are both tools that come bundled with Node.js, but they serve different purposes:

### What is the role of Package.json?

**Package.json** plays a crucial role in managing the project's dependencies, scripts, and other metadata.

- **Project Metadata:** The package.json file contains essential information about the project, such as the project name, version, description, author, license, and repository information.
- **Dependencies Management:** One of the most important roles of package.json is to manage the project's dependencies. It lists all the external packages and libraries that required by the project, along with their versions.
- **Scripts:** The package.json file allows you to define scripts, which are command-line shortcuts for various tasks like running the application, running tests, building the project, or performing other custom operations.
- **Version Management:** The package.json also plays a role in version management. It specifies the version of the project itself, allowing developers to track changes and updates over time.
- **Project Configuration:** The package.json file can also be used to store configuration settings specific to your project, such as repository URLs, keywords, contributors, and more.

### What are the difference between package.json & package-lock.json?

The package.json and package-lock.json are both essential files in Node.js projects, but they serve different purposes and have different structures.

The main difference is that package.json used to define metadata about the project and manage project dependencies. It includes information such as the project name, version, description, author, license, and dependencies, while package-lock.json is automatically generated and managed by npm to lock down the exact versions of all dependencies installed in a project, including transitive dependencies, for consistent installations.

### What is the role of public folder in React?

Public folder in a React application serves as the container for static assets and the HTML entry point for your application. The primary role of the public folder is to hold assets such as HTML files, images, fonts, and other static files needed for your React application.

### What is the role of src folder in React?

**src** folder is the heart of your React application where you write, organize, and maintain the JavaScript files that contain your React components, application logic, and other related code.

### What is the role of index.html page in React?

The **index.html** file plays a crucial role as the entry point for the application in the browser. It serves as the HTML template that contains the root DOM element where the React application will be rendered.

### What is the role of index.js file and ReactDOM in React?

The **index.js** file is typically the entry point for the React application. Its replaces the root element of the index.html file with the newly rendered components.

**ReactDOM** is a JavaScript library that used to render React components into the DOM and manage their lifecycle.

### What is the role of App.js file in React?

- The **App.js** file typically serves as the root component of the React application.
- App component is like a container for other components, such as navigation bars, headers, footers, and sidebars, as well as the main content area of the application.
- App component defines the structure, top-level layout, state management and routing in the application.

### What is the role of function and return inside App.js?

The Function keyword is used to define a JavaScript function that represents your React components.

The Function is like a placeholder which contains all the code or logic of component.

The Function takes in props as its argument and return JSX.

### Can we have a function without a return inside App.js?

### What is the role of export default inside App.js?

### What is the react-scripts package in react application?

## ⚡JSX

### What is JSX?

JSX is a JavaScript XML syntax extension used with React to write UI components. It is faster than normal JavaScript as it performs optimizations while translating to regular JavaScript.

### What is the role of JSX in React?

By using JSX, we can write HTML structures in the same file that contains JavaScript code. Its converted into javascript via tool like Babel. Beacuse Browser understand javascript not JSX.

### What are the Advantage of JSX?

- JSX makes it easier to write or add HTML in React.
- JSX can easily convert HTML tags to react elements.
- JSX is faster than regular JavaScript because it performs optimization while translating the code to JavaScript.
- JSX is type-safe, and most of the errors can be found at compilation time.

### What are the Disadvantage of JSX?

- JSX throws an error if the HTML is not correct.
- In JSX HTML code must be wrapped in one top-level element otherwise it will give an error.
- If HTML elements are not properly closed JSX will give an error.

### What is Arrow Function Expression in JSX?

In JavaScript and JSX, an arrow function expression is a concise way to define a function.

### What is Babel?

Babel is a JavaScript transpiler that converts **Modern JavaScript** into plain old ES5 JavaScript that code can run in older browser.

### What is the role of Fragment in JSX?

React **Fragments** allow you to group multiple elements without adding an extra node to the DOM.

- This can be useful when rendering multiple child elements or components in a single parent component.
- Fragments are represented by an empty JSX tag `<>...</>` or `<React.Fragment>...</React.Fragment>`. You can also use key prop with `<React.Fragment>`.

### Why are Fragments better than container div?

**Fragments** are better than container divs because they don't add an extra node to the DOM.

- We can write cleaner, more readable code with React Fragments.
- It takes up less memory and renders components faster. Each component is rendered as expected.

### What is Spread Operator in JSX?

### What are the types of Conditional Rendering in JSX?

### How do you iterate over a list in JSX? What is map() method?

### Can a brower read a JSX File?

Browsers can't read JSX files directly. They must be transpiled or converted to JavaScript before they can be interpreted by the browser.

### What is Transpiler? What is the difference between Compiler & Transpiler?

### Is it possible to use JSX without React?

### What is the difference between cloneElement and createElement?

JSX elements will be transpiled (converted) to **React.createElement()** functions to create React elements which are going to be used for the object representation of UI.

**cloneElement** is used to clone an element and pass it new props.

## 🎨Components

### What are React Components? What are the main elements of it?

A Component is one of the core building blocks of React. It is a small, reusable piece of code that represents a part of a user interface.

- Components can be defined as either a class or a functional and can include a combination of HTML, CSS and JavaScript code.
- Components can also be nested and reused throughout the application, which makes it easy to manage and maintain the application's user interface.

### What is the meaning of Component-Based Architecture of React?

The component-based architecture of React allows developers to build complex user interfaces by breaking them down into smaller, reusable components.

Each component can manage its own state and props, and can be easily reused throughout the application. This structure makes it easy to understand, test, and maintain the application's codebase.

### What are Functional Component?

Functional component is just a simple JavaScript function. it accepts the data in the form of props and returns the react element.

The biggest advantage of functional components, it provides a lot of hooks & easy to use. Before supporting hooks it was known as a stateless component.

### How do you pass data between Functional Components in React?

### What are Class Components in React?

Class components are ES6 class. They are more complex than functional components including constructors, life-cycle methods, render() function and state management.

- Class components uses different lifecycle methods, such as **componentDidMount**, **componentDidUpdate**, and **componentWillUnmount**, that perform actions at different stages.
- Class components can manage local state using the **setState** method.
- In class component, The **this** keyword is used to access class properties and methods.

### How to pass data between class components in React?

### What are Constructors in class components? When to use them?

### What is the role of super keyword in constructor?

### Why are Props passed to the super() function in React?

There is only one reason when one needs to pass props to super():

When you want to access this.props in the constructor.

```javascript
// After Passing
class MyComponent extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    console.log(this.props);
    // -> { icon: 'home', … }
  }
}

// After Not Passing
class MyComponent extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super();
    console.log(this.props);
    // -> undefined
    // Props parameter is still available
    console.log(props);
    // -> { icon: 'home', … }
  }
  render() {
    // No difference outside constructor
    console.log(this.props);
    // -> { icon: 'home', … }
  }
}
```

### How the State can be maintained in a class components?

### What are the differences between Functional & Class components in React?

Both class and functional components used in react but they has its own syntax, features, and use cases

- A functional component is just a plain JavaScript pure function whereas A Class component is ES6 class.
- Functional component use **useState()** hook for manage state whereas Class component can hold and manage local state using **this.state** and **this.setState**.
- Function component perform side effects using **useEffect** hooks similar to lifecycle methods in class component whereas Class components have lifecycle methods like **componentDidMount**, **componentDidUpdate**, and **componentWillUnmount**.
- Functional components can use hooks such as useState, useEffect, useContext, etc., to manage state and side effects whereas Class components don't use hooks; they has own lifecycle methods for side effects and state management.
- Functional component is easy to use, whereas Class component is complex including constructors, life-cycle methods, render() function etc.

### What are Controlled Components in React?

The controlled component is a way that we can handle the form's data using the state.

Controlled components offer more flexibility and control, making them suitable for complex forms and interactions.

```javascript
import React, { useState } from "react";

export default function App(props) {
  const [inputValue, setInputValue] = useState("");
  const handleChange = (e) => {
    setInputValue(e.target.value);
  };

  console.log(inputValue);

  return (
    <div className="App">
      <input type="text" value={inputValue} onChange={(e) => handleChange(e)} />
    </div>
  );
}
```

### What are Uncontrolled Components in React?

The Uncontrolled component is like traditional HTML form that data are not controlled by the React state.

- Its handle by the DOM (Document Object Model). We get form's value using React Ref to find its current value.
- In most cases, React recommend using controlled component to implement forms.

```javascript
import React, { useRef } from "react";

export default function App(props) {
  const inputValue = useRef(null);

  const handleSubmit = () => {
    alert(inputValue.current.value);
  };

  return (
    <div className="App">
      <input type="text" name="name" ref={inputValue} />
      <button onClick={handleSubmit}>Submit</button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

### What are the difference between Controlled and UnControlled Components?

### What are Characteristics of Controlled component?

### What are the Advantages of using Controlled Components in React forms?

### What are Pure Components in React and what is their purpose?

Pure components are the components that do not re-render when the value of state and props has been updated with the same value.

- PureComponent is mostly used for improve performance and optimize the rendering. Its only used with class components.
- For functional components we use React.memo HOC but memo does not compare the new and old state.

```javascript
import React, { PureComponent } from "react";

class App extends PureComponent {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
  }

  state = { name: "React JS" };

  render() {
    console.log("Render method called!");

    return (
      <>
        <div>Name is : {this.state.name}</div>
        <button onClick={() => this.setState({ name: "React App" })}>Change Name</button>
      </>
    );
  }
}
```

> React team recommend defining components as functions instead of classes.

### Why should we use functional components over the class component?

## 🧱State

### What are the State in React?

State is an object that is used to store the data or information about the component. It can store multiple properties.

- A state can be modified based on user action or network changes and can be passed down to child components as props.
- Whenever state changes, React re-renders the component to the browser.
- Class components use the **this.state** syntax, while functional components use the **useState** hook to achieve state functionality.

### What are State, Stateless, Stateful and State Management terms?

**State** represents the current data of a system.

**stateless** and **stateful** components describe whether a component manages its own state.

**State management** refers to the process of managing and updating application state in a systematic and scalable way.

### What are Stateful components in React?

Stateful component manages the state in class-based with state object or functional component with useState() hook.

Stateful components are keeping track of changing data.

### What is the Stateless component in React?

A stateless component, also known as a functional component & responsible for presenting the UI and receiving data through props. Unlike class components, they don't have internal state or lifecycle methods.

Stateless components render the same thing & good for reuse.

### Can you Update the React State directly?

No, you cannot update the state directly. You should always use the setState() method to update the state, which will trigger a re-render of the components.

### What is the Purpose of Callback Function as an argument of setState()?

### What will happen if you use setState() in constructor?

If you use setState in the constructor, it will cause the component to re-render before it is added to the DOM. This can cause unexpected behavior and should be avoided.

```javascript
class ExampleComponent extends Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);

    this.state = {
      value: "initialValue",
    };

    // This will trigger a re-render, but it won't happen immediately
    this.setState({ value: "updatedValue" });
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <p>{this.state.value}</p>
      </div>
    );
  }
}
```

Instead, it is recommended to initialize the state with the constructor's props and use setState in componentDidMount.

```javascript
class ExampleComponent extends Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);

    this.state = {
      value: "initialValue",
    };
  }

  // Set initial state in componentDidMount
  componentDidMount() {
    this.setState({ value: "updatedValue" });
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <p>{this.state.value}</p>
      </div>
    );
  }
}
```

## 🎸Props

### What are the Props in React?

Props is a special keyword in React, which stands for properties and used to pass data from a parent component to a child component.

- Props are read-only, which means it can't be modified by the child component.
- Data with props are being passed in a unidirectional data flow means one way from parent to child.

### What is the difference between Props and State?

Both props and state are used to manage and handle data in components, but they have different roles like:

- Props are used to pass data from a parent component to a child component, while state is used to manage data within a component.
- Props are immutable and can't be update by component, while state is mutable and can be updated by the component.
- Props can be used to customize the behavior or appearance of a component, while state is used to keep track the information of component.

### What is Prop Drilling in React?

**Prop drilling** is the technique of passing data from parent component to several nested children components that need it.

Prop drilling can become a bad pratice in larger and more complex application because it will produce several issues like maintenance & readability issues, reuseablity issues and performance issues.

### Why to Avoid Prop Drilling? In how many ways can avoid Prop Drilling?

Prop Drilling can lead to several issues, such as code complexity, performance, and scalability of your React applications so we should avoid it.

To avoid prop drilling, React provides several advanced technique such as React Context API or state management libraries like Redux.

### What are PropTypes in React?

PropTypes is a built-in internal mechanism in React that used for adding type checking to component props.

PropTypes help catch bugs early by providing warnings in development if the wrong type of data is passed to a component or if a required prop is missing.

### What are predefined PropTypes in React?

PropTypes was originally part of the React library but has been moved to a separate package called prop-types since React version 15.5.

- PropTypes.string: Accepts a string value.
- PropTypes.number: Accepts a number value.
- PropTypes.bool: Accepts a boolean value.
- PropTypes.func: Accepts a function value.
- PropTypes.array: Accepts an array value.
- PropTypes.object: Accepts an object value.
- PropTypes.symbol: Accepts a symbol value.
- PropTypes.node: Accepts any renderable value (string, number, element, or an array of these types).
- PropTypes.element: Accepts a React element.
- PropTypes.instanceOf(ClassName): Accepts an instance of a specific class.
- PropTypes.oneOf([val1, val2]): Accepts a value from a specified list of allowed values.
- PropTypes.oneOfType([type1, type2]): Accepts a value of any one of the specified types.
- PropTypes.arrayOf(type): Accepts an array of a specific type.
- PropTypes.objectOf(type): Accepts an object with property values of a specific type.
- PropTypes.shape({key: type}): Accepts an object with specific shape.

### Why should you validate Props in React?

Using PropTypes is optional, but it's highly recommended as it helps catch potential bugs early and makes your code more maintainable.

In production builds, the PropTypes checks are stripped out to improve performance.

### Should we use PropTypes with TypeScript?

When using TypeScript with React, you don't necessarily need to use the built-in prop-types library for type checking, as TypeScript provides its own type system and tooling for static type checking.

### What is a Children Prop?

Children prop is a special prop that allows a component to include content (elements, text, or other components) between its opening and closing tags.

This is used mostly in some wrapper or container components, allowing dynamic content to be passed and rendered within it.

```javascript
import React from "react";

const MyComponent = ({ children }) => {
  return <div>{children}</div>;
};

const App = () => {
  return (
    <MyComponent>
      <p>This content is passed as a child.</p>
      <button>Click me</button>
    </MyComponent>
  );
};

export default App;
```

### Why can't you Update Props in React?

Props are used to pass data from a parent component to a child component.

The React philosophy is that props should be immutable and top-down. This means that a parent can send any prop values to a child but the child can't modify received props.

## ✈️Component LifeCycle Methods

### What are Component LifeCycle methods?

React class components have lifecycle methods, Lifecycle methods are series of events that happen throughout the birth, growth, and death of a React component.

### What are the different Phases of Component life cycle?

There are three phase of lifecycle method like **Mounting**, **Updating** & **Unmounting**.

- **Mounting:** When a component is being added to the DOM
- **Updating:** When a component's props or state change.
- **Unmounting:** When a component is being removed from the DOM.

### What is the role of componentDidMount() method in component life cycle?

### What is the role of componentDidUpdate() method in component life cycle?

### What is the role of componentWillUnmount() method in component life cycle?

### What is the role of render() method in component life cycle?

### What is the shouldComponentUpdate lifecycle method?

### What are the Lifecycle of Functional Components?

## ⛹️Rendering & DOM Elements

### How does Rendering work in React?

- Rendering in ReactJS refers to transforming the virtual DOM into the actual DOM that can be displayed in the browser.
- It means taking the React components and converting them into real HTML, CSS, and JavaScript that can be rendered on a web page.

### What is the use of dangerouslySetInnerHTML property in React?

### What are Lists?

A list is a way to render multiple elements dynamically based on an array of data.

- Its used to display collections of items.
- The map() function used to rendering lists.

> When rendering a list of React elements, it's important to provide a unique **key** prop for each element that helps to identify which items in the list are changed, updated, or deleted.

```javascript
{
  data.map((item, index) => <li key={index}>{item}</li>);
}
```

### What are Keys in React?

Keys are unique identifier. It is used in React to identify which items in the list are changed, updated, or deleted.

- Keys should be given inside the array to give the elements a stable identity.
- The best way to pick a key as a string that uniquely identifies the items in the list. Mostly we use IDs from data as key.
- We should not use indexes for keys if the order of items may change.

### What is the impact of indexes as key?

Using indexes as keys in React can have both positive and negative impacts.

- For simple static lists where items don't change, using indexes as keys might be acceptable. It can simplify the code and work well if the list is read-only.
- When dealing with dynamic lists where items can be added, removed, or re-ordered, using indexes as keys can lead to incorrect behavior. This can negatively impact performance and may cause issues with component state.

### What is the Memo function in React?

### What are Refs in React?

Refs is the shorthand used for references in React.

- Refs provide a way to access DOM nodes or React elements created in the render method.
- Refs are typically created using the **React.createRef()** method for class components and the **useRef** hook for functional components.

### How to Create Refs in Class Components?

```javascript
class MyComponent extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.myRef = React.createRef();
  }

  componentDidMount() {
    // Access the DOM element or component instance using this.myRef.current
    this.myRef.current.focus();
  }

  render() {
    return <input ref={this.myRef} />;
  }
}
```

### #### Create a Ref using useRef for functional components.

```javascript
import React, { useRef, useEffect } from "react";

const MyFunctionalComponent = () => {
  const myRef = useRef(null);

  useEffect(() => {
    // Access the DOM element or component instance using myRef.current
    if (myRef.current) {
      myRef.current.focus();
    }
  }, []);

  return <input ref={myRef} />;
};
```

### What are Forward Refs and can you give me a code example for it?

A forward ref is a way to pass a ref through a component to a child component. It allows you to access the ref of a child component from the parent component.

```javascript
import React, { forwardRef, useRef } from "react";
export default function App(props) {
  const inputRef = useRef(null);
  const handleClick = () => {
    inputRef.current.value = "Hello React";
  };

  return (
    <div>
      <p>Forward Ref</p>
      <ChildComponent ref={inputRef} />
      <br />
      <button onClick={handleClick}>Update Input</button>
    </div>
  );
}

const ChildComponent = forwardRef((props, ref) => {
  return (
    <div>
      <input type="text" ref={ref} />
    </div>
  );
});
```

The child component is defined as a "forward ref" component using the forward ref higher-order-component. The forwardRef function takes a component and return a new component that can accept a ref as a prop.

### What is Strict Mode in React?

React **strict mode** is a developer tool that runs only in development mode.

- It allows us to detect errors and provides our code with additional warnings and checks.
- It does not affect the production build. Moreover, it renders components twice to detect any errors in our code and warn us about them.

### What will you do if your react application is Rendering Slow?

The cause of slow rendering is mostly unnecessary re-rendering operation, There are two main tools provided by React to help :-

- **Memo:** This is used to prevent all of the unnecessary rendering in functional components.
- **PureComponent:** This is used to prevent all of the unnecessary rendering in class components.
  React also provides two hooks like useMemo & useCallback for kill the unnecessary re-rendering the components.

### How to use CSS in React?

We can use CSS to style components in several ways.

- Using inline style
- Using a CSS file and importing it into the component
- Using a CSS preprocessor like Sass or Less
- Using a CSS-in-JS library like styled-components

### What are the 5 ways to Style React Components?

There are several ways to style React components. We can choose the method that best fits preferences and project requirements.

- **Inline Styles:** Inline styles involve adding styles directly to the JSX elements using the style attribute.
- **CSS Stylesheets:** Traditional CSS stylesheets can be used in React applications by importing the stylesheet into the component file.
- **CSS Modules:** CSS Modules are a way to locally scope styles by creating a module for each component.
- **Styled Components:** Styled Components is a library that allows developers to write CSS directly within their JavaScript files using tagged template literals.
- **CSS-in-JS Libraries (e.g., Emotion, Radium):** CSS-in-JS libraries enable the writing of styles directly in JavaScript files.

### Why does React use className over class attribute?

React uses the className attribute instead of the class attribute because class is a reserved keyword in JavaScript and since React uses JSX, which is a JavaScript extension.

### What is the difference between Client side and Server side Rendering?

Client-side rendering (CSR) and Server-side rendering (SSR) refer to two different approaches in how web pages are generated & delivered to user.

- **Rendering Process:** In Client-side rendering the entire web page is initially loaded as a blank HTML page with minimal content while with Server-side rendering the server generates the full HTML for the web page and send it to the client.

- **SEO:** CSR does not work for seo while SSR generally considered better for seo.

- **Performance:** CSR slower initial page load because the browser needs to download and execute JavaScript before rendering the content while SSR provides faster initial page loads because the browser receives pre-rendered HTML from the server.

### How do you implement Server Side Rendering (SSR) in React?

To implement the Server Side Rendering (SSR) in a React application, you can use a library such as ReactDOMServer or fullstack framework like NextJS. These library allows you to rendering React components on the server side and sending the generated HTML to the client.

- Server Side Rendering can improve performance and Its beneficial for search engine optimization (SEO).
- It is also provide a better user experience, especially for users with slower network connections.

### How to focus an input element on page load?

### Difference between React memo and PureComponents?

## 🎉Hooks

### What are React Hooks? What are the Top React Hooks?

**Hooks** are functions that give class-like abilities to functional components such as state and lifecycle features.

- It was introduced in the React 16.8 version & does not work inside classes.
- Its making the code reuse, understand and maintain.

There are some build-in hooks like:

State Hooks:

- useState()
- useReducer()

Context Hooks:

- useContext()

Effect Hooks:

- useEffect()
- useLayoutEffect()
- useInsertionEffect

Performance Hooks:

- useMemo()
- useCallback()
- useTransition()
- useDeferredValue

Ref Hooks:

- useRef()
- useImperativeHandle

Other Hooks:

- useDebugValue
- useId
- useSyncExternalStore

### Why should we Use Hooks in React?

Hooks provide a more concise way to manage state and side effects in functional components.

There are some reasons why should use hooks in React:

- Simplified state management using **useState**
- Improved Lifecycle management using **useEffect**
- Better code organization & readablity
- Avoid complex code with class component
- Compatible with functional component & easy to use

### What is useState() hook and how it works?

**useState()** Hook allows you to add state to a functional component. It returns an array with two values: the current state and a function to update it.

State can hold every data type like string, number, boolean, null, object and array.

We can't directly modify the state value. Instead, we can only use the state update function to update the state. When the data is updated, the component should re-render.

### What is the role of useEffect() hook. How it works?

**useEffect()** hook allows to perform side effects in React such as fetching data, updating the DOM, setting up subscriptions and timers. This hook used in functional components.

useEffects() takes two arguments one is callback function other is dependency array. Inside callback function we write our side effect logic and with dependency array it will call side effects only once at first render & its optional.

We can also implement lifecycle methods in functional component similar as class-based components like **componentDidMount()**, **componentDidUpdate()**, and **componentWillUnmount()**.

### What is Dependency Array in useEffect() hook?

The dependency array is an optional second parameter in the **useEffect** hook, and it helps in controlling when the effect should run.

1. To run useEffect on every render do not pass any dependency

```javascript
useEffect(() => {
  // Sample Code
});
```

2. To run useEffect only once on the first render pass any empty array in the dependecy. Adding an empty array is equivalent to componentDidMount().

```javascript
useEffect(() => {
  // Sample Code
}, []);
```

3. To run useEffect on change of a particular value. Pass the state and props in the dependency array. Passing value in dependency array is equivalent to componentDidUpdate().

```javascript
useEffect(() => {
  // Sample Code
}, [state, props]);
```

### What is the meaning of the empty array [] in the useEffect hook?

To run useEffect only once on the first render pass any empty array [] in the dependecy. Adding an empty array is equivalent to componentDidMount(). It is second optional parameter in useEffect.

### What is the puppose of the useEffect Cleanup Function?

The **cleanup** function in the useEffect allows to perform any necessary cleanup when the component unmounts or when the dependencies specified in the dependency array change.

Some effects require cleanup to reduce memory leaks.

- Timeouts, network reqests, subscriptions & event listeners, and other effects that are no longer needed should be disposed.
- We do this by including a **return** function at the end of the useEffect Hook. This is equivalent to componentWillUnmount().

```javascript
useEffect(() => {
  let timer = setTimeout(() => {
    setCount((count) => count + 1);
  }, 1000);
  return () => clearTimeout(timer);
}, []);
```

### What is useContext() hook?

### What is createContext() method? What are Provider & Consumer properties?

### When to use useContext() hook instead of props in real application?

### What is useReducer() hook? When to use it?

### What are the similarities between useState() and useReducer() hook?

### What are the difference between useState() and useReducer hook?

### What are dispatch & reducer function in useReducer Hook?

### What is the purpose of passing initial states as an object in useReducer Hook?

### What is useCallback () hook?

### What parameters does the useCallback hook accept & what does it returns?

### What is useMemo() hook and why use it?

The **useMemo** Hook is a performance optimization tool that allows you to identify expensive calculation issues and avoid unnecessary re-renders.

You should only use useMemo when you have expensive caculations that need to be memoized (remembers). Using it for every value in your component can actually hurt performance.

"Memoization is an optimization technique used to speed up computer programs by caching the results of expensive function calls".

### What is difference between useCallback() & useMemo() Hook?

### What is useRef() Hook?

### What is useLayoutEffect Hook? Compare it with useEffect() hook?

### When to use useLayoutEffect() hook?

### What is the useImperativeHandle() hook?

### What is the useDebugValue() hook?

### What are the Rules or Best Practices for hooks implementation?

There are 3 rules for hook implementation:

- It start with **use**
- Only call Hooks inside React function components.
- Only call Hooks at the top level of a component.
- Don't Call Hooks Conditionally

```javascript
// Correct
function MyComponent() {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0);
  // ...
}

// Incorrect (conditionally calling a hook)
function MyComponent() {
  if (condition) {
    const [count, setCount] = useState(0); // Incorrect
  }
  // ...
}
```

### Can you create your Custom React hooks?

Yes, you can create your custom React hooks by following the naming convention "use" and using state and other hooks inside it.

### What are Custom Hooks?

Custom hooks is a powerful way to reuse logic in functional components. Custom hooks are functions that typically start with the word "use". It can call other hooks and make it easier to organize and maintain the complex applications.

Some custom hook examples like useFetch, useUser, useWindowsize, useStorage etc.

### What do you need to keep in mind while creating Custom React Hooks?

When creating custom React hooks, it's important to keep in mind that they should only call other hooks at the top level and not inside loops or conditions.

- To create a react custom hook, use the "use" keyword followed by a unique name for the hook.
- Also, it's important to make sure that the hook only performs one specific action.

### What are the uses of all the Hooks in React?

### When were the React Hooks introduced first?

React Hooks were first introduced in React 16.8 in 2019.

## 🚴Routing

### What is Routing and Router in React?

### How to implement Routing in React?

### What are the roles of <Routes> & <Route> component in React Routing?

### What are Route Parameters in React Routing?

### What is the role of Switch Component in React Routing?

### What is the role of exact prop in React Routing?

### What is Key prop in React Router?

### How Routing is different from Conventional Routing in React?

## 📅Events

### What is an Event in React?

An event is a type of action that can be triggered by a user or a system-generated event, for example MouseEvents, onClick, onDrag, Keyboard Events etc.

React events are synthetic events, a cross-browser wrapper around the browser's native event.

### How to Handle Events in React (for both functional and class components)?

In React, events can be handled using the on keyword, followed by the event name and a callback function.

For example, to handle a button click event, you would use **onCLick={handleClick}**. This can be done in both functional and class components.

### How to pass parameters to an event handler?

To pass a parameter to an event handler, you can use an arrow function to wrap the event handler.

```javascript
<button onClick={() => handleCLick(parameter)}>
```

### What is the difference between HTML and React Event Handling?

React event handling system is more powerful and flexible than the traditional HTML event handling system.

- HTML & React handle events differently because React is build on the notation of a virtual DOM, Whereas HTML always has access to the Real DOM.
- React uses camelCase for event names while HTML uses lowercase.
- Instead of passing a string as an event handler, we pass a function in React.

### What is the meaning of Synthetic Events in React?

React events are known as a **SyntheticEvent** that contains nativeEvent, which can be used to access browser-specific events and event-handling mechanisms.

## 🍠Code Splitting

### What is Code Splitting in React and why do we use it?

Code-splitting is a technique that used to improve the performance of web applications by splitting the code into smaller chunks or files.

The idea is to only load the code that is necessary for the initial rendering of the application and then load additional code as needed.

### How to Implement Code Splitting in React?

There are different ways to implement code splitting in React. The **React.lazy** function allows you to load a component or router load lazily. It is typically used with the **Suspense** component to handle loading states.

```javascript
// Component Based Code Splitting
const MyLazyComponent = React.lazy(() => import("./MyComponent"));

const App = () => (
  <div>
    <Suspense fallback={<div>Loading...</div>}>
      <MyLazyComponent />
    </Suspense>
  </div>
);
```

```javascript
// Router Based Code Splitting
const Home = React.lazy(() => import("./Home"));
const About = React.lazy(() => import("./About"));

const App = () => (
  <div>
    <Suspense fallback={<div>Loading...</div>}>
      <Route path="/" exact component={Home} />
      <Route path="/about" component={About} />
    </Suspense>
  </div>
);
```

> If you are using Webpack or another bundler which can create multiple bundles that can be dynamically loaded at runtime.

### What is the Lazy Loading in React?

### What is Suspense component in React?

### What is the role of Lazy and Suspense methods in React?

### What are the Pros and Cons of Code Splitting in React?

### What is Router Based Code Splitting & Lazy Loading with react router?

## 🌐State Management

### How many Types of States in React?

In React, there are two types of states: **local state** and **global state**.

- Local state is managed and used within that specific component. It cannot shared with other components. In functional components we use **useState** hook & for class components use **this.state** and **this.setState** methods.

- Global state refers to the state that is shared and accessible across multiple components in a React application. Global state management can be achieved using various techniques, such as Context API, Redux or other libraries.

### How to Update State in functional component?

To update state in a React using the functional components, you can use the **useState()** hook.

- It returns an array with two values: the current state and a function to update it.
- This includes all data types like string, number, boolean, array, object and function.

### How to Update State in class components in React?

To update state in a React using the class components, you can use the **setState()** method.

This method takes an object or function as an argument, and it will merge the new state with the existing state.

```javascript
class Counter extends React.Component {
  constructor() {
    super();
    this.state = {
      count: 0,
    };
  }

  incrementCount = () => {
    // Updating state using an object
    this.setState({
      count: this.state.count + 1,
    });

    // Updating state using a function
    this.setState((prevState) => {
      return {
        count: prevState.count + 1,
      };
    });
  };

  render() {
    return (
      <div>
        <p>Count: {this.state.count}</p>
        <button onClick={this.incrementCount}>Increment</button>
      </div>
    );
  }
}
```

### What is Lifting State Up in React?

**Lifting State Up** in React refers to the process of moving state management from a child component to its parent component.

This is done to make the state more easily accessible and manageable for the entire component tree.

### What is the difference between Local State & Global State in React?

- **Local state** is managed and used within that specific component. It cannot shared with other components. In functional components we use **useState** hook & for class components use **this.state** and **this.setState** methods.

- **Global state** refers to the state that is shared and accessible across multiple components in a React application. Global state management can be achieved using various techniques, such as Context API, Redux or other libraries.

### How many ways to Manage Global State?

There are several ways to manage global state in a React application that depends on the complexity of your application.

- **Context API**: The Context API is part of React and provides a way to share values like state between components without passing props manually at every level.

- **Redux**: Redux is a popular state management library for managing larger and more complex global state in React applications.

> You can choose other libraries such as MobX, Recoil, React Query etc.

### What is the Context API in React?

The Context API is a way to share data with multiple components, without passing props manually at every level.

- Context API create global variables that can be passed around in React application. It is the alternative of "prop drilling".

- Instead of installing a state management library in your application, you can easily go with Context API that will be light weight in bundle size.

### What is the difference between Context API and Redux?

The Context API and Redux are both state management solutions in React, but they have some differences such as:

- Context API is part of the React library that provides a way to pass data in components but Redux is a third-party library that provides a centralized approach to managing data flow in your application.
- Context is designed for managing smaller amounts of state means it's suitable for simpler scenarios where a global state is necessary but Redux is designed for managing larger and more complex state in a predictable way.
- Context is easier to set up and use but Redux required extensive setup to integrate with a React Application.
- Context debugging can be hard in highly nested React Components but Redux provide powerful Redux Dev Tool to easy debugging and also provide middleware system.
- Context managing state for smaller to medium-sized applications but Redux managing state for larger applications with complex state requirements.

## 📡API Data Fetching

### How to Fetch API in React?

Fetching API data in a React application can be done using the fetch function or by using third-party libraries like Axios.

If you need a lightweight solution and are working in a modern environment, fetch() might be sufficient for simple use cases but If you prefer a more feature-rich and consistent API, with built-in error handling, interceptors, cancellation, and all browser support, Axios is a popular choice.

> If you required data fetching with caching, state management & easily error handling then you can also use React Query.

### How to handle Api Error in React?

Handling API errors in React involves capturing and managing errors during making HTTP requests to an API. There are common approaches to handle API errors in a React application:

- Try-Catch with Async/Await
- Promises with .then() and .catch()

### What is difference between Fetch and Axios for api call in React?

Fetch is a native JavaScript interface and Axios is JavaScript libraries. Both are used for making HTTP requests in web applications, including React. But there are some key differences between them such as:

- Fetch is part of the JavaScript language and available globally in modern browsers while Axios is library that need to be installed separately.
- Fetch returns a Promise that resolves to the Response object, requiring additional steps to extract data while Axios returns a Promise that resolves to the response data directly.
- Fetch considers network errors, but it does not reject the Promise for HTTP error status codes (e.g., 404 or 500) while Axios rejects the Promise for HTTP error status codes, making it easier to handle errors directly in the .catch() block.
- Fetch does not provide built-in request and response interceptors while Axios allows the use of interceptors for both requests and responses, providing a convenient way to modify or handle requests and responses globally.
- Fetch does not have built-in support for request cancellation while Axios supports request cancellation, allowing you to cancel ongoing requests using a cancellation token.
- Fetch requires more manual configuration for common tasks, such as setting headers or handling cookies while Axios provides a simple way to set default configurations for all requests, reducing redundancy in the code.
- Fetch follows the same-origin policy, and CORS-related headers need to be handled manually while Axios automatically includes credentials and handles CORS headers by default.
- Fetch built into modern browsers while Axios compatible with all major browsers.
- If you need a lightweight solution and are working in a modern environment, fetch() might be sufficient for simple use cases but If you prefer a more feature-rich and consistent API, with built-in error handling, interceptors, cancellation, and all browser support, Axios is a popular choice.

### What is React Query Library?

React Query is a popular JavaScript library for managing and caching server state in React applications.
It provides a set of hooks and utilities that simplify data fetching, caching, and state management in a declarative and efficient way.

### What is React Query advantages?

There are some advantage of React Query:

- React Query uses a declarative approach to data fetching with the use of hooks like useQuery and useMutation. This simplifies the process of fetching and updating data in React components.
- React Query automatically caches API responses based on the query key and parameters. Cached data is stored in memory and can be easily invalidated or refetched when needed.
- Supports optimistic updates, allowing you to update the UI optimistically based on user actions before receiving the response from the server.
- Provides built-in support for pagination and infinite loading, making it easy to implement features like "Load More" or infinite scroll.
- Supports automatic refetching of data at configurable intervals, ensuring that the UI stays up-to-date with the latest server data.
- Designed with server-side rendering & support for fetching data on the server before rendering on the client. This helps improve the performance of server-rendered pages.

### How to manage API Cache in React?

Managing API cache in a React application can help improve performance by avoiding unnecessary network requests and reducing server load. There are various approaches to API caching, and the choice depends on the specific requirements of your application.

- Use HTTP Caching headers that include Cache-Control. The browser automatically handles caching based on these headers.

```javascript
<meta http-equiv="Cache-control" content="public">
```

- Use state management libraries like Redux or context API to store and manage cached data.
- Use library like React Query that provide built-in caching mechanisms for API data.
- If you are using Axios for API requests, you can use **Axios cache adapters** to handle caching.

### Can Ajax be used in React?

Yes, Any Ajax library like axios, jQuery Ajax can be used with react.

## 🐜Testing, Debugging & Deployment

### What is Unit Testing & why its useful?

Unit tests are designed to test single units of code in isolation. Unit testing helps catch bugs early, reducing the overall cost of software development and improve code quality.

### What are the popular Testing Libraries for React?

Testing is an important part of software development. React has several popular testing libraries and tools to help developers write effective unit, integration, and end-to-end tests.

But Jest is a comprehensive JavaScript testing framework developed by Facebook. It is widely used for testing React applications.

### What is Jest Library?

Jest is a JavaScript testing framework developed by Facebook. It is widely used for testing JavaScript code, including React applications.

- Jest is known for its simplicity, speed, and developer-friendly features.
- Jest is often used with React Testing Library, making it easy to write tests for React components using a simple and intuitive API.

### How to debug react application?

Debugging a React application involves identifying and fixing errors in your code. There are several techniques and tools you can use to debug a React application effectively:

- Open browser **console** to view logged messages, errors, and warnings.
- Add the React Developer tools browser extension.
- Add **console.log** statements in your React components to output variable values or messages to the console.
- Use React error boundaries to catch and handle errors in specific components.
- Use the React Profiler (available in React Developer Tools) to profile the performance of your components and identify areas for optimization.
- Check the "Network" tab in your browser's developer tools to inspect network requests and responses. This can help identify issues related to API calls or data fetching.
- Use ESLint and other analysis tools to catch potential issues in your code before runtime.

### What is React Developer tool?

React Developer Tools is a browser extension that provides a set of debugging and profiling tools for React applications.

It help developers inspect React component hierarchies, track component state and props, debug the application, and analyze performance.

> React Developer Tools can also help inspect the Redux state and actions.

### What is the Environment File & its benifit?

An environment file refers to a configuration file that contains environment-specific settings and variables. It is used store configuration settings related to development, production, and other environments.

There are some benifits:

- Its simplyfy the development
- Dynamic configuration for multiple environments
- Secure sensitive information, such as API keys or database credentials.

### How to use Environment Files (.env) in React App?

You can use environment files (.env) to manage environment-specific configuration variables in react application.

- First create an environment file in the root of your React project.

```javascript
REACT_APP_API_URL=https://api.example.com
```

- Access environment variables in code with prefixed `process.env`

```javascript
const apiUrl = process.env.REACT_APP_API_URL;
```

- Restart the development sever

### How to set Environment Files (.env) for development & production in React App?

You can set environment variables for development and production by using environment-specific files and the `REACT_APP_` prefix.

- Create two environment files in the root of your React project:
  - .env.development for development
  - .env.production for production

```javascript
// .env.development:
REACT_APP_API_URL=http://localhost:3001
REACT_APP_ENVIRONMENT=development

// .env.production
REACT_APP_API_URL=https://api.example.com
REACT_APP_ENVIRONMENT=production
```

- Access environment variables in code with prefixed `process.env`

- When you running your development server using **npm start** then react will automatically use **env.development** and when deploying your app using "npm run build" for production, React will use **.env.production** file.

### Should we commit .env files to version control?

Do not commit your **.env** files to version control, especially if they contain sensitive information. Instead, provide a template (e.g., .env.example) with placeholder values.

### What is Bundling in React and why do we use it?

Bundling is the process of combining multiple JavaScript files into a single file or a few files.

This is typically done to optimize the performance of web applications by reducing the number of HTTP (network) requests needed to load a page.

> Webpack is a highly configurable bundler tool that can handle not only JavaScript files but also various assets like stylesheets and images.

### How to set React to Production Build?

Setting up a React application for production involves optimizing the build for **performance, enabling production-specific settings, and ensuring security**. There are some general steps to set up a React production build:

- Enable environment variables for production
- Remove Debugging code
- Testing the application
- Make build of react application
- Deploy to your production server

## 💪Advanced

### What is Higher Order Components (HOC) in React?

A Higher-Order Component (HOC) is a function that takes a component as an argument and returns a new component with additional functionality.

It is an advanced technique in React for reusing component logic.

There are some advantage of HOC:

- Make code more optimized and readable
- Easy to handle
- Copying the same logic in every component

### How to create props proxy for HOC component?

### How does React handle the Forms?

### Explain the concept of Error Boundaries in React?

Error boundaries are React components that catch JavaScript errors anywhere in their child component tree, log those errors and display a fallback UI.

- They were introduced in React v16, and they allow you to handle errors gracefully.
- Its only catch errors that occur during rendering, not errors that happen during event handling, in asynchronous code, or during server-side rendering.

### What is the use of the ReactDOM package?

The ReactDOM package is used to render components and elements on the web. It is a part of the React library used to create user interface and dynamic web applications.

It interact and manipulate the DOM structure, including the element and components that are rendered on the page.

### What is the difference between React & ReactDOM?

Both React and ReactDOM are libraries that work together to build user interfaces, but they serve different purposes.

- React is a JavaScript library for building user interfaces. It provides a way to structure UI components and manage their state.
- ReactDOM is a seprate library that provides DOM-specific methods for working with React.
- ReactDOM includes methods like `render()`, which is used to render React components to the DOM. This is a key function that bridges the virtual DOM with the actual DOM.

### Why is ReactDOM separated from React?

ReactDOM is a specific package in the React ecosystem that is responsible for rendering React components to the DOM. In earlier version of React, ReactDOM was bundled together with the main library.

Separating ReactDOM allows developers to use React not only the web application but also for other platforms, such as mobile and server-side rendering.

### What are React Portals?

### What is Fiber in React?

### What is the main goal of React Fiber?

### What is Reconcillation in React?

React uses a process called reconciliation to determine how the virtual DOM should be updated based on changes in props and state.

### Is it possible to use React without rendering HTML?

Yes, It’s possible to use React without rendering to the HTML DOM.

React is a core library for building user interfaces on the web and also for other environments such as react native apps, server-side rendering and game development etc.

### What are the difference between React & React Native?

- React is used to build the user interface for web applications, whereas React Native is used for developing mobile applications for Android & iOS.
- React utilizes HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to create interactive user interfaces, whereas React Native utilizes APIs and native UI components to build mobile applications.
- React used a virtual DOM to render browser code, whereas React Native uses Native API to render components for mobile applications.

### What is GraphQL?

### How to use GraphQL in React?

### How can you implement Authentication in a React application?

### What is the use of React Profiler?

### How can you Optimize Performance in a React application?

### Explain Reactive Programming with example?

### In how many ways can we implement Reactive Programming in React?

### How to Fix Memory Leaks in ReactJS?

### How to the Secure React App?

### How to pass data from child component to parent component in React?

## ⚡Redux

### What is Redux?

### What is the role of Redux in React & why is it use?

### How many ways to use Redux in React?

### When to use Hooks and when to use Redux in React application?

### What is the Flow of data in React while using Redux?

### How to install Redux for React application?

### What are Action Creators in React Redux?

### Difference between Action Creators, Action Object & Action Type?

### Explain React Component Structure while using Redux?

### What is the role of Store in React Redux?

### What is the role of Reducer in Redux?

### Explain the Core Principles of Redux?

### List 5 benifits of using Redux in React?

### What are the challenges or disadvantages while using Redux?

### What is Provider Component in Redux?

### What is the role of Connect function in React-Redux?

### What are the 4 important files in React-Redux project?

### How to structure the project and maintain state in multiple components?

### Explain the concept of immutability in the context of Redux?

### Typical properties of an Action object in React-Redux project?

### Difference between mapDispatchToProps & mapStateTpProps in the connect?

### What is the meaning of Unidirectional Data Flow in Redux?

### How does Redux handle communication between components?

### What is the difference between Redux Core & Redux Toolkit?

### Explain the concept of Middleware in React-Redux?

### What is Redux Thunk?

### Why do we use Redux Thunk and Saga?

### Difference between Regular Action creator & Thunk action creator?

### How can you handle Asynchronous Operations & side-effect in React-Redux?

### How does Error Handling work in Redux?

### What is the difference between Flux & Redux?

## 💡TypeScript

### What is TypeScript?
